>> Jafar Husain: And retries perhaps.
This simple little operator
is one of the big reasons why
observables are a lot more expressive and
powerful.
For front end work in my
opinion than promises.
And so we'll talk about promises later.
But we're not going to go too
deeply into promises in this class.
It's one thing I want to talk about in the
outset because a lot of you I think saw,
those of you who read the course
description probably noticed that one of
the things we were gonna focus on in this
class is async/await, and how promises and
observables interact.
I'm not gonna be doing that.
Part of the reason for that is, who
here has heard of promise cancellation?
Anybody?
So, there is a proposal in front of the
TC39 JavaScript Committee, on which I sit.
As well as a bunch of other folks
from Google and Mozilla, for
enabling the cancellation of promises,
and unfortunately that fell through.
So, as of today,
you can't cancel promises.
Does anybody find that to be a problem,
big deal, not a big deal.
So in general for front end work,
cancellation is not a rare thing.
In fact it happens all the time.
The thing about users, they're fickle.
They change their minds all the time.
So in practice what ends up
happening is if you use promises and
now I've worked with developers on at
least three midsized to large projects who
have used promises everywhere.
And they very rapidly run
into this problem which is
wait the user hit the back button right?
So remember that example we talked about
earlier where I'll go to a form and
then you show a loading bar and then
you make a request to load the data for
that form and then somebody hits back?
How do you handle that if it's a promise?
Anybody have any ideas how we
would handle that with a promise?
Let's say you've created a promise that's
gonna resolve, it's called resolve when it
calls your call back,
when that data comes back from the server.
Anybody have any ideas about how we could
avoid doing all the work associated with
that promise being resolved,
creating all those form elements,
showing the screen, etc.?
Anybody have any ideas?
>> Speaker 2: Use Bluebird
that has cancelable promises?
>> Jafar Husain: That's a good one.
Right, you could always use bluebird.
Unfortunately, that's not gonna
integrate well necessarily with
all the promises on the web that are not
cancelable, right, or the native promises.
And so Bluebird has the notion
of cancelable promises.
For a variety of reasons,
the committee has decided not to
go in that particular direction.
So in absence of the deus ex machina
of using a third party library,
how would we cancel?
Or if we can't cancel a promise, the best
we can do is we can just ignore it, right?
So how would we ignore it?
Like I wanna drum up some ideas here.
How would I remember to ignore a promise?
How I would I remember that
somebody's left the screen and
I don't care about this promise anymore,
what would I do?
How do we remember
the current subscription?
>> Speaker 2: Can you use a closed state?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
you can close and state.
And in fact, that is generally
how this problem is solved.
People build up all these fancy
promise-based abstractions.
And they use async/await,
which is some very, very nice syntax for
something you probably shouldn't
be doing on the front end.
And that's why it's so dangerous.
So, this new study today the new fancy
syntax of async/await is so really nice,
and pretty, and easy to use, and
you probably shouldn't use if for
most use cases in the UI.
That is a pretty dangerous thing, so the
committee has put ourselves in a position
where we've built some very,
very nice attractive syntax for
patterns that are probably not
a good idea on the front end.
Does anybody love promises and they think
I'm just way off base here and I just
don't get it and they wanna push back
>> Speaker 2: You changed my mind today.
>> Jafar Husain: I
changed your mind today.
Well we're gonna see how something
like switch latest is able to
handle this without any state, right?
The idea behind switch latest but
we see inside of operators like retry it's
perfectly alright to have but basically
we make the state somebody else's problem,
that's my favorite kind of problem.
It's the problem of the RX library,
but our code,
as we'll see later,
contains nothing but consts.
All we're gonna be doing
is defining things and
letting RX worry about
all the state internally.
And because of the shape of observable,
and
the fact that it's got this unsubscribe
concept that we've been building,
it allows us to do that with
something like switchLatest.
Promise unfortunately does not have that.
And so while people want to build these
nice declarative UIs, they find themselves
storing a bunch of state which is exactly,
what we're trying to get rid of.
Because shared mutable state, shared
state where two independent asynchronous
concurrent processes are looking at the
same piece of state and modifying them at
the same time, it's perhaps the number
one source of bugs in concurrent apps.
And so while promises were trying to get
you to write more declarative code, in
practice you end up writing just as much
imperative code in UIs at least today,
because you're always trying to
keep state to just keep track of
what you don't really care about anymore.
And observable says, well,
why have state to keep track
of what you don't care about?
Just get rid of it, right?
And we're gonna see how that's done, but
I think you already have a little bit of
an idea about how switch
latest enables that.
If we had had promise cancellation in
the language, I would be talking to you
right now about how to integrate between
cancelable promises and observable and
used certain things for promises and
certain things for observables.
Today in my official guidance to
you is please don't use promises on
the front end.
Despite the fact that they've got
a really nice syntax with async/await,
they are probably setting yourself up for
failure.